Cleaned up typos and syntax mistakes in scenarios_authoring docs (#5486)
TouK/nussknacker: docs/scenarios_authoring/BasicNodes.md

# Basic Components

> Nodes work with data records. They can produce, fetch, send and collect data or organize the flow. Each node has at least two parameters: `Name` and `Description`. Name has to be unique in a scenario. Description is a narrative of your choice.

Reviewer: maybe it is better to write "data flow" here, to be more precise, even if this means we use word data twice

Author: "Nodes can manipulate the data flow by producing, fetching, sending or collecting data"?

Reviewer: You can write "Nodes can manipulate the data flow by producing, fetching, sending or collecting data", or it can stay as is

Most of the nodes have both input and at least one output flow. Source and sink nodes are an exception.

Sinks and filters can be disabled by selecting `Disable` checkbox.

&nbsp;
## Variable

> A Variable component is used to declare a new variable. In its simplest form a variable declaration looks like the example  below. As the event has been read from a Kafka topic, the `#input` variable holds event contents. Event value is assigned to a newly declared `myFirstVariable` variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Variable component is used to declare a new variable. In its simplest form a variable declaration looks like the example  below. As the event has been read from a Kafka topic, the `#input` variable holds event contents. Here the event's value is assigned to a newly declared `myFirstVariable` variable.

Author: I agree with the suggestion to change, but I think "After that, the event's..." would be better, as Here sounds where ambiguous

> A Variable component is used to declare a new variable. In its simplest form a variable declaration looks like the example  below. As the event has been read from a Kafka topic, the `#input` variable holds event contents. Event value is assigned to a newly declared `myFirstVariable` variable.

Reviewer 3: Variables are not easy to. We ended up with the following statement on variables [here](https://nussknacker.io/documentation/docs/1.12/scenarios_authoring/Intro/#variables): _Variables are attributes of the data record, they do not exist by themselves._

In this context stating _event's value_ will be confusing. Event does not have value, it has attributes in the form of variables. For me correct formulations would be _content of #input variable is assigned to myFirstVariable_.

Finally, this fragment of docs was written when we did not have R-R processing mode, so term "event" is used. May be it could be replaced with more neutral "data record" term, or even better, we could run away from mentioning Kafka here.

Author: I agree, but I would like to underline the fact illustrated in the graphic that first the record value is assigned to input and then to another variable. I have changed the wording to underline that and omit kafka.

![alt_text](../autoScreenshotChangeDocs/Auto_Screenshot_Change_Docs_-_basic_components_-_variable0.png   "Scenario with variable declaration")

> As you can see in the `variable` configuration form below, Nussknacker has inferred the data type of the `#input` variable. Nussknacker can do this based on info stored in the previous components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see in the `variable` configuration form below, Nussknacker has inferred the data type of the `#input` variable. Nussknacker can do this based on the information available from the previous components.
```

![alt_text](../autoScreenshotChangeDocs/Auto_Screenshot_Change_Docs_-_basic_components_-_variable1.png "Variable declaration form")

> In the next example `#input` variable is used to create an expression returning a boolean value. If the input Kafka topic contains JSON objects and they contain an `operation`, the value can be obtained using the following pattern:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the next example `#input` variable is used to create an expression returning a boolean value. If the input Kafka topic contains JSON objects which contain a field named `operation`, the value of the field can be obtained in the following way:
```

Author: I think your wording is very complex. You specify plural objects first but then switch to evaluating a singular field of a Singular JSON. I think that could be pretty confusing to a reader that isn't very familiarized with the context. Additionally, as written in the comment above, I think refraining from using "field" here would be better, even though I understand the willingness to be technically precise.

> In the next example `#input` variable is used to create an expression returning a boolean value. If the input Kafka topic contains JSON objects and they contain an `operation`, the value can be obtained using the following pattern:

Reviewer: maybe "the following expression" instead of "the following pattern"

Author: For my personal taste, pattern is more suitable here as it is more related to this object.field access concept.

Reviewer: the following pattern" is also ok

> In the next example `#input` variable is used to create an expression returning a boolean value. If the input Kafka topic contains JSON objects and they contain an `operation`, the value can be obtained using the following pattern:

Reviewer: maybe "an 'operation' field" would be better, as it explicitly states what is this 'operation' entity

Author: I'm not sure whether this specification is needed for a non-technical user. How would he know what "field" means here? I think it makes things more complicated. I could probably settle for 'operation' value which is technically incorrect, but probably more understandable to most people.

Reviewer: I think that if someone knows what JSON is that person may also know what json object field is. In that case "they contain an `operation`" may mean to them less then "they contain an `operation` field". But it is more of an sugggestion, it can stay like this.

> In the next example `#input` variable is used to create an expression returning a boolean value. If the input Kafka topic contains JSON objects and they contain an `operation` field, the value of the field can be obtained using the following pattern:

Reviewer 3: You removed mention of Kafka topic in line 16, so I think we should not mention Kafka here either

Author: removed.

`#input.operation`

![alt_text](../autoScreenshotChangeDocs/Auto_Screenshot_Change_Docs_-_basic_components_-_variable2.png "Screenshot_tooltip")

> Note that internally Nussknacker converts the JSON object into a SpEL map.

Reviewer 3: We no longer use 'map' term - it is a[record](https://nussknacker.io/documentation/docs/scenarios_authoring/BasicNodes/#recordvariable) these days. 

Moreover, "internally converts" is debatable. I think Nu [maps scenario variables](https://nussknacker.io/documentation/docs/scenarios_authoring/Spel/#data-types-and-structures) to Java types; but I think this info is not critical here and can be omitted.

Author: I think internally converts is ok, we don't need to dabble in specifics here. 
Changed map to record.

&nbsp;
## RecordVariable

The specialized `record-variable` component can be used to declare a record variable (JSON object)

![alt_text](../autoScreenshotChangeDocs/Auto_Screenshot_Change_Docs_-_basic_components_-_mapmariable0.png "record-variable form")

The same outcome can be achieved using a plain `Variable` component. Just make sure to write a valid SpEL expression.

![alt_text](../autoScreenshotChangeDocs/Auto_Screenshot_Change_Docs_-_basic_components_-_mapmariable1.png "record-variable declaration using a plan Variable component")

&nbsp;
## Filter

> Filters let through records that satisfy a filtering condition.

Reviewer: maybe "Filters let through only records ..."

Author: Isn't that tad close to a tautology? :D

Reviewer: User might think that they let through also some other kind of records :) But on the other hand no one is gong to think that so it can stay

![filter graph single](../autoScreenshotChangeDocs/Auto_Screenshot_Change_Docs_-_basic_components_-_filter0.png)

> You can additionally also define an additional `false sink`. Records from the `source` which meet the filter's conditions are going to be redirected to the `true sink`, while others end up in the `false sink`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can additionally also define an additional `false sink`. Records from the `source` which meet the filter's conditions are going to be directed to the `true sink`, while others end up in the `false sink`.
```

![filter graph](../autoScreenshotChangeDocs/Auto_Screenshot_Change_Docs_-_basic_components_-_filter1.png)

The Expression field should contain a SpEL expression for the filtering conditions and should produce a boolean value.

![filter window](../autoScreenshotChangeDocs/Auto_Screenshot_Change_Docs_-_basic_components_-_filter2.png)

&nbsp;
## Choice

Choice is a more advanced variant of the filter component - instead of one filtering condition, you can define multiple conditions in some defined order.
It distributes incoming records among output branches in accordance with the filtering conditions configured for those branches.

![choice graph](../autoScreenshotChangeDocs/Auto_Screenshot_Change_Docs_-_basic_components_-_choice0.png)

> After a record leaves`source`. When it arrives in `choice`, the record value is tested against each of the defined conditions.  If `#input.color` is `blue`, the record ends up in `blue sink`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a record leaves`source` it arrives in `choice`, the record's value is tested against each of the defined conditions.  If `#input.color` is `blue`, the record ends up in `blue sink`.  
```

> After a record leaves`source`. When it arrives in `choice`, the record value is tested against each of the defined conditions.  If `#input.color` is `blue`, the record ends up in `blue sink`.  

Reviewer: First sentence in this line seems to end abruptly

Author: Right, typo. Will improve

> After a record leaves`source` it arrives in `choice`, the record's value is tested against each of the defined conditions.  If `#input.color` is `blue`, the record ends up in `blue sink`.  

Reviewer 3: "the record's value is tested" --> a bit too imprecise:

- Variables are attributes of data records. 
- It is #input.color _do not know what_ (data field?) that is tested here.

Author: Changed it to be more precise about attributes usage

> If `#input.color` is `green`,the record will be sent to the `green sink`. For every other value, the record is sent to `sink for others` because condition `true` is always true.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `#input.color` is `green`,the record is sent to the `green sink`. For every other value, the record is sent to `sink for others` because condition `true` is always true.
```

Order of evaluation of conditions is the same as is visible in the configuration form - top to bottom. You can modify the order using the drag & drop functionality.

> Order is also visible on the designer graph in an edge's (arrow's) description as a number. Be aware that the layout button can change displayed order of nodes, but it has no influence on order of evaluation.

Reviewer 2: (arrow's)  doesn't clarify much, either expand it `(the arrow connecting nodes)` it or remove it
